The theme for my discussion is never let Satan intimidate you.
To intimidate means to try to get someone to do or not do something by bullying,
terrorizing, threatening them, and, of course, Satan is a God of intimidation.
That's one way he tries to get people to do what he wants.
On the other hand, Jehovah always motivates by love.
The word intimidate is found twice in the study Bible notes,
and the word intimidated is found once in the main text of our Bible,
Deuteronomy 117, where the judges who were to assist Moses were told
do not be intimidated by men, render impartial judgment.
But now, even though these words are not used so much in the Bible,
the idea is found many times.
As a few examples, think of Goliath, who was nine-and-a-half feet tall,
trying to intimidate young David.
Remember what he said to him?
First Samuel chapter 17, he said, just come to me,
and I will give your flesh to the birds of the heavens and to the beast of the field.
Just come to me, little boy, and I'll feed your corpse to the buzzards and hyenas.
Big time intimidation.
Or what about the rapshika in loud, fluent Hebrew trying to intimidate the Jews
in the time of Hezekiah?
Sand ballot in Tobiah, trying to ridicule Nehemiah and the Jews for building the wall.
Or another example found in today's Watchtower comments,
Nebuchadnezzar really tried to intimidate the three Hebrews into worshipping
an idol. How did he do it?
Well, Daniel 3 verse 1 says, he erected an immense image,
almost 90 feet tall, 9 feet wide.
And that was intimidating in itself.
But then he assembled, according to verse 2,
a huge strong of people, say traps, prefects, governors, advisors, et cetera, et cetera,
intimidating throng.
And then verses 4 through 6, he had it loudly proclaimed,
you are commanded.
When you hear the horn, the pipe, the zither, you must fall down and worship this image.
And anyone who does not do so immediately will be thrown into the burning fiery furnace,
very intimidating.
But those three Hebrews remained unintimidated.
But of course, Satan, as we said, tries to still use intimidation today.
If you don't take this blood transfusion, you will surely die.
If you don't accept this job, talking about a job that will damage you spiritually,
your family will starve.
Why won't you smoke this cigarette, are you afraid, are you chicken?
Why won't you date this girl in your class who likes you?
Are you a homosexual?
Today, Satan uses intimidation.
Verse 5-8 says, the devil walks about like a roaring lion.
And often, those roars take the form of intimidation,
kind of like the roars of a literal lion,
according to the insight book, or calculated to cause domestic animals to stampede
and break out of their protective enclosure.
But now, here's a question, what lessons can we learn from those three Hebrews
that will help us to never let Satan intimidate us?
Well, here are a few lessons.
One, never quit trusting Jehovah with all your heart,
despite the roars of the devil.
If you go to Daniel chapter 3, notice how they put implicit trust in Jehovah,
despite this intimidating situation.
Chapter 3, verse 16, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the king,
oh, never can nether, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
If it must be, our God whom we serve is able to rescue us
from the burning, fiery furnace, O King, and to rescue us from your hand.
But even if he does not, let it be known to you, O King,
that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold that you have set out.
See, they trusted Jehovah.
Now, here's another lesson.
Holy Spirit will help us remain calm, not panic,
give a good answer to our persecutors.
When you think about what we just read, the answer they gave, amazing composure,
amazing answer they gave.
Obviously, Holy Spirit was working powerfully upon them,
and we're promised the same will be true of us.
At Luke 12, 11 and 12, Jesus said when they bring you before public assemblies,
government officials, authorities, don't be anxious about what you will say.
The Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what to say.
Now, here's another lesson.
Jehovah can use his powerful angels to rescue us from an intimidating situation.
In the case of the three Hebrews, they were rescued miraculously.
When the King looked into that furnace, instead of seeing three men bound being cremated,
he saw four walking about freely, the fourth obviously, an angel.
Now, when they were brought out of that furnace,
Daniel 327 says they didn't even have the smell of fire.
No hair of their body was singed.
Now, we've been in homes where people are smokers,
and you pick up that smell of smoke very easily.
Talking about singing your hair, hair of singes very easily.
Some time back, I tried to light a gas stove using a match.
I didn't get the timing exactly right.
It blew back, burned about half the hair as off my arm.
But here they didn't have a hair senged, not even the smell of smoke.
Now, today, we don't expect Jehovah's angels to deliver us miraculously.
But Jehovah can use them to maneuver circumstances.
So we find a job to provide for our family.
So we find a cooperative doctor who respects our stand on blood as just a couple of examples.
Or he may use the angels to strengthen us, to be faithful in the face of that fiery test.
Now, here's another lesson we can learn.
Firm belief in the resurrection can powerfully fortify us,
even if we're threatened with death.
Undoubtedly, those three Hebrews, new Job's words of Job 1413,
where Job asked Jehovah to conceal him in the grave,
set a time limit, and then remember him, resurrect him.
Likely, they were familiar with the resurrections of Elijah and Elijah.
Now, they didn't know if they'd be miraculously delivered,
but they did know they would be resurrected if they kept their integrity.
The same is true with us today.
And that firm belief in the resurrection, if you think about it,
stripped Satan of his power to intimidate us, even in the face of death.
You could say that hope is like our secret weapon.
Now, here's one more lesson we can learn.
Remaining staunchly unintimidated,
will give a powerful witness to onlookers.
Do you remember what the King said when they came out unharmed?
From that furnace, he said, praise be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
For there is no other God who is able to rescue like this one.
And think about this.
If Nebuchadnezzar and other Babylonian onlookers are resurrected
as part of the unrighteous mention in Acts 24-15,
this experience will give them a head start in the New World
on taking a stand, would you, Hova?
And think about even the men who threw them into the furnace,
who died doing so.
Now, if they're resurrected, they'll be told about what happened
subsequent to their untimely death.
And undoubtedly, that will be an impetus to a spiritual progress in the New World.
Well, the same is true today.
When we stand firm unintimidated,
we give a powerful witness,
and are many that are now in the truth as a result of such witness.
Well, there we have five anti-intimidation lessons.
We can learn from those three Hebrews.
In review, never quit trusting Jehovah despite the roars of the devil.
Two, Holy Spirit will help us remain calm, not panic.
Give a good answer.
Three, Jehovah can use his angels in various ways to rescue us
from intimidating circumstances.
And number four, the resurrection hope will powerfully fortify us
not to be intimidated, even in the face of death.
And number five, remaining staunchly unintimidated,
who will give a profound witness to onlookers.
So make all of us, like those three Hebrews,
be determined to never let Satan intimidate us.